src/kicad/kicad_upgrading_from_v4_to_v5.adoc, before:

:icons: fonts
:iconsdir: /img/icons/

= Upgrading from Version 4 to Version 5

Changes were made to the behavior to KiCad during the version 5
development that can impact projects created with older versions
of KiCad.  This section serves as a guide to ensure the smoothest
possible path when upgrading to version 5 of KiCad.

== Schematic Symbol Libraries

Schematic symbol libraries are no longer accessed using the symbol
(referred to as components in version 4) look up list.  The symbol
libraries are now managed using a symbol library table which is
is almost identical in behavior to the footprint library table.
This represents a significant change in the way symbol libraries
are defined and accessed and will resolve the long standing issue
with symbol library ordering in Eeschema along with some new
features such as platform independence and lazy library loading.
KiCad users should be familiar with the design and concept so this
is not a tutorial on how to configure your symbol library table.
It is important information that you need to understand in order
to properly convert your existing schematics to use the symbol
library table.

=== Global Symbol Library Table.
The first time you start version 5 of Eeschema and there is no
global symbol library defined in the KiCad configuration, Eeschema
will prompt you to create a new global symbol library.  If you
do not understand why you would want to use a custom global symbol
library table, choose the default global symbol library option.

[NOTE]
If you track the
https://github.com/KiCad/kicad-symbols:[symbol library repository],
changes made to the default global symbol library table are not
tracked by KiCad.  You will have to manually keep the global symbol
library table up to date.

=== Symbol Library Table Mapping

Much like the conversion over to the footprint library table, there
will be issues and a learning curve.  Hopefully, familiarity with
the footprint library table will minimize the learning curve.  The
biggest issues will be with existing projects and users with custom
symbol library configurations.  Some of these issues will be mitigated
by a new symbol library table remapping feature.  This feature will
be executed whenever a schematic is opened that has not yet been
remapped.  There are a few steps you should take ahead of time in
order for the remapping to be the most effective.

[NOTE]
If you have been using a development build of KiCad, copy the full
default global symbol library table file (sym-lib-table) from the
template folder installed with the KiCad libraries or from the
https://github.com/KiCad/kicad-library/blob/master/template/sym-lib-table[KiCad library repo]
to your KiCad user configuration folder.  This will replace the
empty one (most likely) created by Eeschema.  If you do not do
this, you will most likely end up with a bunch of broken symbol
links.

[WARNING]
Remapped schematics will not be compatible with older versions of
KiCad.  Make sure to back up project schematic and project files
before remapping a schematic in case things go wrong. +

1. If possible, keep version 4 of KiCad installed on your system unless
   you have never used any of the symbol libraries distributed with KiCad.

2. If you get warning about missing libraries when you start version 4
   of Eeschema, make sure to fix the missing libraries if they contain
   symbols that are in the schematic before you attempt to remap your
   schematic.  Otherwise, the correct symbol will not be found and you
   will end up with broken symbol links in your schematic.  You can test
   this by left clicking on a symbol in the schematic and verifying
   that the symbol is not being loaded from the cache library.  If a
   symbol is being loaded from the cache library, you are already skating
   on thin ice.

3. If symbol recovery is required during the remapping process, do not
   dismiss it.  Failure to recover symbols will result in broken symbol
   links or the wrong symbol being linked in the schematic.

4. During the remapping process, symbol libraries not found in the global
   symbol library table will be used to create a project specific symbol
   library table.  You will have to move them manually to the global symbol
   library table if that is your preference.

5. For the most accurate remapping you should create a project library
   by copying the project cache file (project-name-cache.lib) to a different
   file and add it to the top of the symbol library list.  You must use a
   version of KiCad prior to the symbol library table implementation in
   order to do this.

=== Symbol Names and Symbol Library Nickname Limitations

Symbol naming now follows the same convention as footprint naming with
one exception, spaces are not allowed in library nicknames or symbol
names.  The colon ':' character cannot be used in symbol library nicknames
or symbol names and forward slash '/' character is not allowed in symbol
names.  Existing symbols containing these characters will cause issues
with broken symbol links in schematics.  Fix any symbol names that contain
these characters symbols that violate these naming restrictions.

== Symbol Cache Library Availability

The cache library is no longer shown in either the symbol library viewer or
the symbol library editor.  The cache should have never be editable because
any edits would get overwritten by the next schematic save.

== Board File Format Changes

Several new features have been added to Pcbnew which impact the board file
format.  Using these new features in board designs will prevent them from
being opened with previous versions of Pcbnew.

- Rounded rectangle footprint pads.
- Custom shape footprint pads.
- Footprint pad names longer than four characters.
- Keep out zones on more than a single layer.
- 3D models offset saved as millimeters instead of inches.
- Footprint text locking.

=== Global Footprint Library Table.

If you track the
https://github.com/KiCad/kicad-footprints:[footprint library repository],
changes made to the default global footprint library table are not tracked
by KiCad.  You will have to manually keep the global symbol library table
up to date.

Commit message:

Fix broken links and minor grammar fixes to KiCad updgrade document.

src/kicad/kicad_upgrading_from_v4_to_v5.adoc, after:

:icons: fonts
:iconsdir: /img/icons/

= Upgrading from Version 4 to Version 5

Changes were made to the behavior to KiCad during the version 5
development that can impact projects created with older versions
of KiCad.  This section serves as a guide to ensure the smoothest
possible path when upgrading to version 5 of KiCad.

== Schematic Symbol Libraries

Schematic symbol libraries are no longer accessed using the symbol
(referred to as components in version 4) look up list.  The symbol
libraries are now managed using a symbol library table which is
is almost identical in behavior to the footprint library table.
This represents a significant change in the way symbol libraries
are defined and accessed and will resolve the long standing issue
with symbol library ordering in Eeschema along with some new
features such as platform independence and lazy library loading.
KiCad users should be familiar with the design and concept so this
is not a tutorial on how to configure your symbol library table.
It is important information that you need to fully understand the
in order to properly convert your existing schematics to use the
symbol library table.

=== Global Symbol Library Table.
The first time you start version 5 of Eeschema and there is no
global symbol library defined in the KiCad user configuration,
Eeschema will prompt you to create a new global symbol library.
If you do not understand why you would want to use a custom global
symbol library table, choose the default global symbol library
option.

[NOTE]
If you track the
https://github.com/KiCad/kicad-symbols[symbol library repository],
changes made to the default global symbol library table are not
tracked by KiCad.  You will have to manually keep the global symbol
library table up to date.

=== Symbol Library Table Mapping

Much like the conversion over to the footprint library table, there
will be issues and a learning curve.  Hopefully, familiarity with
the footprint library table will minimize the learning curve.  The
biggest issues will be with existing projects and users with custom
symbol library configurations.  Some of these issues will be mitigated
by a new symbol library table remapping feature.  This feature will
be executed whenever a schematic is opened that has not been remapped.
There are a few steps you should take ahead of time in order for the
remapping to be the most effective.

[NOTE]
If you have been using a development build of KiCad, copy the full
default global symbol library table file (sym-lib-table) from the
template folder installed with the KiCad libraries or from the
https://github.com/KiCad/kicad-library/blob/master/template/sym-lib-table[KiCad library repo]
to your KiCad user configuration folder.  This will replace the
empty one (most likely) created by Eeschema.  If you do not do
this, you will most likely end up with a bunch of broken symbol
links.

[WARNING]
Remapped schematics will not be compatible with older versions of
KiCad.  Make sure to back up project schematic and project files
before remapping a schematic in case things go wrong. +

1. If possible, keep version 4 of KiCad installed on your system unless
   you have never used any of the symbol libraries distributed with KiCad.

2. If you get warning about missing libraries when you start version 4
   of Eeschema, make sure to fix the missing libraries if they contain
   symbols that are in the schematic before you attempt to remap your
   schematic.  Otherwise, the correct symbol will not be found and you
   will end up with broken symbol links in your schematic.  You can test
   this by left clicking on a symbol in the schematic and verifying
   that the symbol is not being loaded from the cache library.  If a
   symbol is being loaded from the cache library, you are already skating
   on thin ice.

3. If symbol recovery is required during the remapping process, do not
   dismiss it.  Failure to recover symbols will result in broken symbol
   links or the wrong symbol being linked in the schematic.

4. During the remapping process, symbol libraries not found in the global
   symbol library table will be used to create a project specific symbol
   library table.  You will have to move them manually to the global symbol
   library table if that is your preference.

5. For the most accurate remapping, create a project library by copying
   the project cache file (project-name-cache.lib) to a different file
   and add it to the top of the symbol library list.  You must use a
   version of KiCad prior to the symbol library table implementation in
   order to do this.

[NOTE]
A tool has been provided to attempt to fix remapping issues.  If there
are missing symbol library links in a schematic, they can be fixed by
using opening the "Tools->Edit Symbol Library References..." and click
the "Map Orphans" button.

=== Symbol Names and Symbol Library Nickname Limitations

Symbol naming now follows the same convention as footprint naming with
one exception, spaces are not allowed in library nicknames or symbol
names.  The colon ':' character cannot be used in symbol library nicknames
or symbol names and forward slash '/' character is not allowed in symbol
names.  Existing symbols containing these characters will cause issues
with broken symbol links in schematics.  Fix any symbol names that contain
these characters symbols that violate these naming restrictions.

== Symbol Cache Library Availability

The cache library is no longer shown in either the symbol library viewer or
the symbol library editor.  The cache should have never be editable because
any edits would get overwritten by the next schematic save.

== Board File Format Changes

Several new features have been added to Pcbnew which impact the board file
format.  Using these new features in board designs will prevent them from
being opened with previous versions of Pcbnew.

- Rounded rectangle footprint pads.
- Custom shape footprint pads.
- Footprint pad names longer than four characters.
- Keep out zones on more than a single layer.
- 3D models offset saved as millimeters instead of inches.
- Footprint text locking.

=== Global Footprint Library Table.

If you track the
https://github.com/KiCad/kicad-footprints[footprint library repository],
changes made to the default global footprint library table are not tracked
by KiCad.  You will have to manually keep the global symbol library table
up to date.
